The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) protease is a homodimer that
presents a cavity with an aperture involving low-frequency breathing motions in
which participate synchronized movements of rigid backbone segments[53],[54].
The active site is symmetrically formed by both monomers. The access to the
active site is controlled by two β-turn flaps with specific anchoring regions.
HIV-1 protease can be divided into three domains: the core domain, localized at
the interface containing the active site, the terminal domain including both N
and C terminals, and the flap domain, the most flexible domain[55],[56],[57]
with the two β-turn that acts as gate. El VolG mueve estos flap domain? En que
proporcion? Y que mov relative?

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) kinase presents a main active site
pocket limited by an N-terminal and C-terminal lobes (N and C lobes) that are
connected by a hinge region[58]. While the N lobe is composed of five β-strands
and the αC helix, the C lobe is predominantly helical containing a highly
flexible activation loop. Two main conformations, so-called active and inactive
conformers[59],[60] have been largely structural described and their relative
stabilities have been associated to different types of cancers[61],[62]. El
VolG mueve el activation loop? Involucra mov resp al hinge región? Va en la
dirección activa-inactive?

T4 lysozyme (T4L) has been largely studied by either
experimental[63],[64],[65], [66], [67] and theoretical
techniques[68],[69],[70],[71],[72]. The volume of the catalytic clef is
functional significant since opening and closure of the clef is associated to
ligand-binding[73]. Previous PCA studies [68],[73] shows that its firsts PCA
modes are associated to N-terminal and C-terminal inter-domains motions:
hinge-bending, twisting, and relative torsions. These motions have a
substantial impact on the size and shape of the cavity. El VolG involucra a
estos modos?
